The output of your analysis and
the analytic models that you have
created has an important story to tell.
And you are the only one
that can give it a voice.
However, before you can present results,
you need to understand
what you have discovered and
make sense of what you have.
Your own examination of results
precedes the presentation to others.
In other words,
you must figure out what is the story
that you want to tell and to whom.
The nature of the story and
the audience will determine how
you are going to present it.
Telling a story about data analytic
results requires some basic skills.
In this video,
we will review some best practices
that will help you create effective
stories of analytic results.
The following principles come from
the excellent book by Stephen Few
titled Show Me the Numbers.
The story must be simple,
this sounds reasonable but
it's often difficult to achieve.
You first must get to the essence of
what you want to communicate, and
then find the best possible
way to present it.
Simplicity means getting rid
of what is not essential.
For example,
suppose that I want to show results of our
efforts to increase the graduation
rate at the lead school.
So I could use this graph
that shows the change
in the Leeds' graduation rate compared
to the Arts and Sciences department and
also compared to the CU border campus.
But is this really what
I want to communicate?
Suppose that I'm presenting this
to the Leeds school board members.
They probably just care about how
much progress we have made from
where we were five years ago.
If that's true,
then I can simplify things tremendously.
I can use a visual like this,
which emphasizes where we are now
compared to five years ago.
Your story must seamlessly
integrate words and pictures.
Images and words are processed
by different parts of the brain.
So visual and verbal communication
can be presented in parallel and
this results in richer understanding.
Stories should be informative.
This means that the results that you
are presenting should be something new for
the audience.
There is also need to be shocking or
surprising but
they don't need to reveal something
that the audience doesn't already know.
Of course if you have something
surprising to reveal,
then your message will stick even more.
You should tell true stories.
The story should not only be true, but
the audience should perceive it as true.
The story should not only be
validated with relevant evidence, but
it should also be supported
by citing relevant sourcing.
Projecting conviction and
transparency will strengthen your message.
Numerical patterns and trends are best
understood when presented in some context.
Relevant comparisons
give meaning to numbers.
And enable judgment decision making and
action.
Contextual data may include targets,
forecast, historical values or
benchmarks, such as industry standards.
Suppose that you're
presenting sales revenue, for
this year in a line chart like this,
has this been a good year so far?
Well, we can't tell, we need context.
So we can add sales revenue from last
year to create the following chart.
Now, we can tell that this year's sales
volume is higher than last year's.
Also we shouldn't worry about sales
leveling off from June to July,
because that's better that what
happened last year when sales revenues
decrease from June to July.
We could even add more context,
for example,
we could add these years target
revenues and create a chart like this.
This chart really tells a story,
the story is so far,
we're doing better than last year.
And not only that, we're exceeding
the targets that we set for this year.
In the last video,
they talked about knowing your audience.
The main idea about knowing your
audience is to present results in terms
that are familiar to them.
If you can present your findings in simple
language that is familiar to everyone,
there is no reason to use technical or
cryptic terms.
You won't get any style points for that.
Experts have no problem
understanding abstract concepts.
But unless everyone in your audience is
an expert you should provide concrete
examples to help people
make sense of abstractions.
For instance, very large or very small
numbers are difficult to understand.
Take production scheduling,
in this area we know that examining
all possible job sequences,
to select the best, is not practical.
If you have 20 jobs then there
are 2.1 quintillion sequences.
Now this sounds like a large number,
but how large is it?
Instead of quoting the number we can
say that a modern computer with a fast
processor will require almost four months
to examine all the sequences of 20 jobs.
And what's more shocking is that
the time explodes to almost seven years
by just adding one more job.
You see,
we had translated a very large number into
a value that has more practical meaning.
In this case, what's meaningful
is the time that it would take
to find an optimal sequence by
examining all possible sequences.
So remember,
you want a story that is simple.
That is seamless in the integration
of words and visuals,
that is informative, that is true,
that is framed in the right context.
That is told in terms that are familiar to
the audience, and that it uses concrete
examples to help audiences
understand abstract concepts.
Are you ready to create these
type of stories with numbers?
I hope so.